# Early Detection of Cardiac Disease using ML
This is a project proposes a method to accurately detect cardiac disesases using machine learning. 

## Abstract
<p>Heart related diseases are primarily the main reason of death throughout the world and due to which a large number of casualties are arising in countries with low and middle income like India. A large amount of data is continuously generated by medical practitioners. The data generated can be used for the early detection of cardiac diseases, which can effectively support to reduce the occurrence of various heart related diseases. The decision prediction can be effectively done by enhancing the knowledge identification required to discover patterns that were not formerly known.</p> 
<p>Efficient prediction can be done by accessing the data accumulated from health care companies and industries and find the hidden patterns. The proposed work uses a machine learning algorithm on cardiac-related data and attempts to detect the possibility of cardiac diseases prior to suffering from serious issues. Implementation results demonstrated in the paper show the effectiveness of the proposed approach in early prediction of cardiac diseases.</p>

## Proposed Approach
<p>This approach uses Decision trees as they implicitly perform feature selection & can tackle nonlinear relationships between parameters. A tree can be "learned" by simple splitting the source set into various subsets based on the attributes and t recursion is completed when splitting no longer adds value to the predictions. Gini and entropy are used to decide the information gained after dataset is split.</p>

## Technology Used
Hardware Details:-
⮚	Arduino Uno ATMEGA328p
⮚	MAX30100 SENSOR
⮚	Breadboard
⮚	Connecting wires
⮚	4.7 ohm resistors
⮚	OLED display

<br>

Software Details:-
⮚	Arduino ide
⮚	Python and required libraries
⮚	Jupyter notebook
⮚	Apache Cordova

<p>The integration of machine learning model and web application is done using Flask.</p>
